Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
In a hurry, aren't you?
What are you running for?
You're covered in blood.
How did you get covered
in all this blood?
Now, the blood. Now, whose is it,
and where did it come from?
Now, come on, come on.
The old Herzeg house.
Outside town.
Yes, yes, the Herzeg house.
Yes, yes.
Cellar.
A man in a glass case...
Head...
Head.
What do you think you're doing?
I'm sorry, sir. One of our men
found Dr. Heidecke in his doorway.
His head's been cut off.
- Do you see anything?
- No, sir. I can hear water though.
Well, inspector, I'd say you
have the crime of the century.
If that's what you want.
I wouldn't like to have
to find the reasons for it.
Well, whoever left this amount
of evidence is a fool.
I'll soon find him.
Inspector, I know doctors.
Very few of them are fools.
Oh, so it was a doctor, was it?
Thank you.
Doesn't it look like it?
You can't buy equipment
of this kind over a counter.
When I want your diagnosis,
I'll ask for it.
Doctor.
No one's been living here.
There's some rotting furniture,
but that's all.
Thank you, sergeant.
Tomorrow I want your men to check
all suppliers of surgical goods...
...laboratory equipment and drugs.
- Yes, sir.
I want the names of all their
purchasers for the last year.
- Yes, sir.
- And, sergeant.
- Yes, sir?
I want the names of all...
Of all persons listed as missing.
Yes, sir.
The mortuary attendant, sir.
All right.
Now, I understand you've lost a body.
Dr. Herman Streich, I believe.
Can you tell me for certain
when he was last in there?
On the day he was taken in there.
We don't keep going back to look.
They're not expected to walk, are they?
I advise you to be careful.
You have just lost a body.
And that's no cause
for funny remarks.
I last saw him when
I slid him into the drawer.
Has anybody recently made inquiries
as to who you had lying in there?
- No.
- You're sure?
Not a man with a pockmarked face,
for instance. Think hard.
No one. Not with pockmarks, warts,
pimples or hairs growing out of his nose.
- We don't have visitors.
- Oh, get out!
Give the duty sergeant
a statement on the way.
Damn fool.
Dr. Streich could've been
the body in the cellar, I suppose.
Yes.
Yes, it ties in, doesn't it?
Yes, but why?
For what reason, eh?
There's one absolute certainty.
We are looking for a doctor.
Nothing is absolutely certain
until it is proven.
At the moment, I believe...
...that we're looking for a mad
and highly dangerous medical adventurer.
Whether it's a doctor or not
remains to be seen.
- Good evening.
You are advertising
vacant accommodation?
Yes, that's right.
Please come in.
Thank you.
- It's a cold evening, isn't it?
- Yes, it is indeed.
I'll show you the rooms
that are available.
That won't be necessary.
I'm sure any of them
will suit me perfectly.
- Well, if you'll sign the register.
- Of course.
Thank you.
Will you be staying long?
Indefinitely.
Thank you, Mr. Fenner.
My name is Anna Spengler.
- How do you do, Mrs. Spengler?
- Miss.
- I beg your pardon.
- Now, may I show you to your room?
Of course. Thank you.
- Do you run this house alone?
- Yes, I'm afraid I do.
That's quite a task, if I may say so,
for one so young.
It belongs to my mother, really.
- She's very old now, and she's retired.
- I see.
I only have four other guests, so...
...you'll find it very quiet here.
- She really wailed that time, Dr. Holst.
- It's the worst she's ever been.
- Spiders again?
- Yeah.
Get on with it.
Hold her legs still.
You can take the jacket off
when she's asleep.
Good evening, Professor Richter.
Good evening, doctor.
- How is she?
- Not at all good, sir.
I've given her a few hours' sleep.
And what is your opinion
of Dr. Brandt, sir?
I sometimes wonder if we're
not all wasting our time.
A man has an abscess,
we cut him open, see the abscess.
But a sick brain...
We open the skull,
all we can see is the brain.
Of the sickness, there is no sign.
I suggest you tell Mrs. Brandt there's
no point in continuing to visit her husband.
It is my opinion
that he can never be cured.
What a terrible waste.
Madness is always sad.
But for such a brilliant man
to drive himself mad...
...what a terrible waste.
A terrible, terrible waste.
Not very talkative, our new resident.
Damn surly, if you ask me.
Only just about managed
to say good evening.
My move, I think.
Oh, yes.
Dreadful business, this Dr. Heidecke
getting his head lopped off.
The world's full of maniacs.
Ever cross your mind that you never know
who you're standing next to in the street?
Funny you should say that.
Today I stood next to probably
the worst madman of the decade.
- Who?
- Dr. Frederick Brandt.
Remember him?
Yes, I do.
But where did you see him?
Not in the street, surely?
Of course not. I had to call at the asylum
to discuss a new plumbing installation.
I passed him in the exercise yard.
Name rings a bell,
but I can't place it.
He's the doctor who caused
an absolute furor in the medical world...
...about five years ago with some...
...fantastic and devilish notion he had
about transplanting people's brains.
You know, putting them
from one person into another.
And he claimed that anyone undergoing
such surgery could survive.
Absolute claptrap.
I seem to recall that another fellow
had the same idea at the same time.
A foreigner.
- Oh, dear. What was his name, now?
- Frankenstein.
Baron Frankenstein. Lived in Bohemia.
That's the one.
They were both run out
of the medical profession, right?
That's right.
And Frankenstein was run
out of his country as well.
The church, in particular,
pilloried him.
The devil's disciples, the pair of them.
Of course, it was the work that Brandt was
engaged on that sent him mad, you know.
- Well, it must have been.
- Excuse me. I didn't know that you were doctors.
- Doctors? We're not doctors.
I beg your pardon. I thought you knew
what you were talking about.
You're damn rude, sir.
Stupidity always brings
out the worst in me.
- Stupidity?
- Yes, stupidity.
It is fools like you who have
blocked progress throughout the ages.
You make pronouncements on half-facts
that you don't understand.
I find your tone and manner
highly objectionable, sir.
But if you wish to involve yourself
in an argument about it, pray...
...explain the word "progress"
in this context.
You wouldn't understand it.
I will give you a parallel
that you may just appreciate.
Had man not been given
to invention and experiment...
...then tonight you would
have eaten dinner in a cave.
You would've strewn the bones
about the floor...
...then wiped your fingers
on a coat of animal skin.
In fact, your lapels do look
somewhat greasy. Good night.
- How was your day?
- Terrible.
But a kiss and a drink
will help me forget all about it.
- I think the drink can wait.
- If you want to go to the theater tonight
you'd better have that drink.
- Come here.
Anna, you're looking
very beautiful tonight.
- Thank you, Dr. Holst.
- So let's put the tickets on the fire.
Karl, it took me two hours
to get ready this evening.
And I would like to go to the theater.
- I'll get you that drink.
- Right.
Darling, I had a letter
from Mother this morning.
She sounds so much better,
I can't believe it.
Darling, I've told you before
not to set your hopes too high.
As yet, there's no cure for her,
just temporary relief.
I know.
I heard from the hospital treasurer
as well.
The fees are going up again.
It's... It's dreadful that you
have to buy a life.
Yes.
So long as nerve specialists are in short
supply, we'll have to pay a high price.
- Luckily for us, that's no problem.
- But I worry in case you're discovered.
- It's dangerous, isn't it?
- It isn't dangerous, darling. I promise you.
I've been getting away with it for a year,
so stop worrying about it.
- But if you're caught...
- I won't get caught.
I'm in charge of the drugs department,
I add a figure here, subtract one there.
It's all right, Anna. Really.
It's the only way to get the money
to keep your mother where she is.
The illegal drug market is one source
where money never dries up.
Lock this packet in a bureau,
Anna, will you?
There's no point in taking
it to the theater.
Where the devil is it?
- Where did I take my coat off?
- On the doorstep.
It must have fallen out there,
or in the hall.
Good evening.
I found this on the doorstep.
It appears to have come
from the Holburg Mental Hospital.
- Would it belong to anyone in the house?
- Yes, thank you. It's mine.
Good evening, Mr. Fenner.
This is my fiancé, Dr. Karl Holst.
How do you do?
It's a pleasure to meet you.
- The box, please.
- Oh, yes, of course. I'm sorry.
- It's cocaine. Isn't it?
- Yes, as a matter of fact, it is.
We've tickets for the theater this evening,
and we're already a little late.
- Do you work at the asylum?
- Yes, I do. Now, if you...
Dedicated men, mental health doctors.
Not a very pleasant job, I should imagine.
It isn't. Get your coat, Anna.
We'd better go.
I trust your mother
is not too ill, Miss Spengler.
Doctor, is the Hippocratic oath
no longer taken in the profession?
- What do you mean?
- What I said.
- Of course it's still taken.
- Oh, I see.
Then I fancy you do not number
yourself among the dedicated men?
Mr. Fenner, forgive me, but I can't stand here
all night talking gibberish with you.
- Come along, Anna.
- Neither of you are going anywhere tonight.
- How dare you? What right...?
- I have every right.
You're both engaged
in highly illegal business.
Illegal business?
What do you mean?
Come now, Miss Spengler.
You know what I'm talking about.
All right, so you overheard
a conversation. Prove it.
The Narcotics Bureau
would prove it in no time at all.
It's uncanny how they discover
irregularities in their record books.
Haven't you noticed?
What do you want?
The penalties for drug trafficking
in this country are the harshest in Europe.
As a medical man,
you would get not less than 20 years.
And you, my dear Miss Spengler,
would get at least 10.
Can you imagine what you would
look like after 10 years in prison?
I'm sure you can, doctor.
- How much do you want?
- Oh, I want no money. I want your help.
What sort of help, for God's sake?
Don't invoke the Almighty. I should think
he's very angry with you at the moment.
Sit down.
Both of you,
and listen to what I have to say.
I can tell you if there was
an official body to complain to...
...I would have you closed down.
We've lived here long enough
to regard the place as home.
To be thrown into the street without
reasonable warning is utterly disgraceful.
And I think in our own small way,
we've been very kind to you over the years.
This is an appalling way to treat us.
It makes a mockery of all trust
and standards of decency.
Goodbye.
Thank you, Anna.
Thank you very much.
You sent for me, inspector?
Yes, pack your bag.
You're going up to Altenburg
for a while.
- With you?
- Yes, with me.
For how long?
Until I say we come back.
Might I be permitted
to ask why we're going?
Yes, you read that.
In the Altenburg area, there've been
four robberies in the last two weeks.
All from manufacturers of surgical
or laboratory equipment.
And enough stuff has been taken...
...to equip something very similar
to what we saw in that cellar.
You've killed him, doctor.
Please, tell me!
What happened tonight?
Tell me.
Karl hasn't spoken since you got back.
- What's wrong with him?
- Why don't you ask him.
Karl.
Don't sit here like this.
Say something.
Please.
I killed a man tonight, Anna.
I killed the night watchman.
I didn't mean to.
Oh, God, I didn't mean to.
I panicked.
Anna, I want you
to go away from here.
- You must leave this house tonight.
- Not unless we go together.
We can't go together.
He'll put the police onto us at once.
He says he needs me,
and after what I've done tonight
he has me completely trapped.
But he doesn't need you.
- You must get away from here tonight.
- No.
Anna, my love...
...if we get caught, you'll go to prison
for the rest of your life.
Don't you realize the position you're in?
You're harboring a murderer
and an accessory to murder.
I won't go without you, Karl.
I'm as much to blame
for all this as you are.
It's my fault you took the drugs.
Even if we escape
the consequences of this...
...there's no longer any future
for you and me, Anna.
I'm a murderer.
I'm not leaving you, Karl.
No matter what happens.
Such loyalty is most touching.
The plan, Karl.
I trust you didn't forget it.
Who are you?
Did you get the plan?
I'll do no more until you tell me
who you really are.
What you're involved in.
Stay where you are.
I am Baron Frankenstein.
Frankenstein.
I thought the world
had seen the last of you.
So did a lot of other people.
I have work to do, and you will
both give me every assistance.
The plan. Where is it?
- In that case on the table.
- Thank you.
Show me Dr. Brandt's cell.
Well, it's here,
but he's a raving madman.
- What do you want with him?
- I intend to get him out, with your help.
Then I shall cure his insanity.
You're as mad as he is.
It's utterly impossible.
Your medical education
is soon to be vastly improved.
I tell you, it isn't possible.
We had Professor Richter see Brandt
and he says he's a hopeless case.
You can take whatever Richter
says as an absolute fact.
Richter. Yes, he's a clever man,
up to a point.
But he's not progressive.
You mean you're going to bring
a madman to this house and operate on him?
Anna, go and make
us some coffee, please.
- You don't need her. Let her go.
- I need her to make coffee. Anna.
- Now, explain the layout of the asylum.
- You're wasting your time.
- You'll never get him out.
- Of course I will.
Remember what happens to you...
...and Anna if I don't.
I find it very hard to accept
that there's no hope.
No hope at all?
I most sincerely wish there was better
news I could give you, Mrs. Brandt.
But I think it best
that you should know the truth.
- Truth?
- Yes.
For the last three months, we've had
to take the precaution of sedating him...
...every time you came to visit him.
He's suddenly developed
the most violent and murderous rages.
He's drugged at this moment.
And his condition does nothing
but deteriorate.
We fear...
...that there is nothing more
we can do for him.
Are you sure?
- Are you absolutely sure?
- Absolutely.
And I'm going to suggest
to you, Mrs. Brandt...
...that you cease to visit him.
For you, it can only be
terribly, terribly painful.
And as for Dr. Brandt...
...he doesn't even know
that you're in the room with him.
I couldn't do that.
I couldn't just walk away.
Well, I won't press the point,
but I do ask you to consider it.
It can only be upsetting.
Come.
There's a woman in cell six
who thinks she sees spiders.
When she does, her screams
will wake the dead.
See that she's under sedation
the night we go there.
I can't guarantee that.
I don't make out the duty roster.
Then find some way to alter it.
Why are you doing all this?
Brandt has a secret that I must know.
In order to learn that secret...
...I must cure his insanity.
- What secret?
We were involved in the problems
of transplanting the human brain.
We both achieved it.
Utterly impossible.
I assure you, it isn't.
We both found a way of making
a transplant from one body to another.
We corresponded on the subject.
Our next step was to find a way of freezing
brains without destroying the living cells...
...so they could be stored
for future use.
My research went badly,
but Brandt discovered the technique.
He wrote to me.
And we arranged to meet for the first time.
He was to tell me the secret.
Unfortunately, two days before
we were to meet, he went mad.
The pressure of his work had broken him.
He disappeared.
Shortly afterwards,
I was hounded out of the country.
It's horrifying.
But it doesn't explain
why you were doing it.
We were seeking to preserve for all time
the great talents and geniuses of the world.
When they die, their brains are at
the height of their creative power.
And we bury them underground to rot
because the bodies that house them
have worn out.
We want to remove those brains at the instant
of death and freeze them...
...thus preserving
for posterity all they contain.
It's frightening.
I shall need Brandt's case history.
Get it for me. Good night.
I beg you.
- Let Anna go.
- Perhaps, when my work is finished.
Thank you for the coffee, Anna.
Yes, all right, all right.
Take him away. Take him away.
Here.
What's been taken?
Surgical knives of various kinds,
saws, hypodermic syringes and the like.
- Yeah.
- I'd say for certain, your man is a doctor.
Oh, would you really? I'd be most surprised
if you tell me what he looks like.
- How tall he is and his weight.
- I'm sorry. I think...
Look, I do the thinking.
You check the stores.
You'd be well-advised to get
younger men to patrol these premises.
That last old chap was 70
if he was a day.
Well, what about this knife wound?
Well, whoever did this knew exactly
where he was putting the knife.
- Oh, yes.
- Too exactly to be lucky, I think.
Yes. Oh, yes, yes, yes.
We better start by making a tour of all the
derelict and empty properties in this area.
Well, come on.
Come on. Come on.
- Which door, doctor?
- Six.
Dr. Holst!
What the devil do you think
you're doing?
I'm putting her under sedation, sir.
She's been having a bad time lately.
I had noticed that, doctor.
I will tell you when to give patients
extra sedation.
Inexperience I can excuse,
but lack of basic procedure I cannot.
Now, come out of there.
I couldn't sedate her.
The principal caught me in her cell.
Then we'll just have to trust to luck.
Be careful, now.
He can turn savage in a second.
He doesn't like injections.
Don't be afraid, Dr. Brandt.
We're not going to hurt you.
There. Don't be afraid.
No!
- Just relax.
- Watch it!
Hold him! Hold him!
- Hold him. Back in you go!
- I've got him!
Hold him! Hold him!
Hurry.
The dogs, Frankenstein!
They'll get the dogs!
Anna.
- Karl.
- I must get back.
You haven't finished!
Now, Mrs. Brandt, there is a most
worrying aspect about all this, you know.
Your husband did not escape
from the asylum.
He was taken out.
- Taken out?
- Removed.
Somebody removed him from his cell.
How is that possible, inspector?
Now, Mrs. Brandt, I can lay before you
the absolute facts.
But we shall proceed more quickly
if you'll take my word for it.
Who'd want to do such a dreadful thing?
And for what reason?
Now, at the asylum we learned
that your husband was a doctor...
...who achieved a certain notoriety
about five years ago.
- Yes.
- In the line of researchhe was engaged
upon, he had a collaborator.
A Baron Frankenstein.
That is correct.
Oh, inspector, I've often believed
that it was he who drove Frederick mad.
- My God! You don't think he...?
- Mrs. Brandt.
Don't tell me what I am thinking.
Listen to what I'm saying.
- And please answer my questions.
- Inspector.
Now...
...in connection with other inquiries
we're making...
...I would very much like to meet
this Baron Frankenstein.
Or at least to discover what he looks like.
Now, do you know his whereabouts?
And did you ever meet him?
Mrs. Brandt, I am asking you,
did you ever meet him?
Do you know where he is?
No... no.
Thank you, Mrs. Brandt.
I will keep you informed.
- You're late.
- I couldn't get away.
The police have been there all day.
They know he was taken.
They're pretty sure someone inside
must have helped.
They're not utter fools.
Our friend is in trouble.
- He's had a very severe heart attack.
- I'm not surprised.
I massaged the heart. He won't live
more than two or three days.
If I operate on him in his present condition,
he'll die instantly.
Then it's all been a waste of time.
- It's over, isn't it?
- Not in the least.
Just made things more difficult.
But there's nothing you can do now.
On the contrary, I can transplant his brain.
If I don't, it'll die through lack of oxygen.
I must therefore transfer it
to a healthy body to keep it alive.
When the recipient has fully recovered,
I shall operate again...
...to cure the insanity.
You can't mean any of that. You can't.
- I mean every word of it.
But that would mean you'd have to remove
someone else's brain to do it.
Of course, Karl. How else?
But that would be murder!
You're used to that by now.
Aren't you?
Remember, Dr. Knox had Burke
and Hare to assist him.
Think what they did for surgery
between them.
Now, I have you.
If I were to put Dr. Brandt's brain
in the body of another surgeon...
...he'd be the living proof
of everything we were striving for.
Karl...
...Professor Richter would be ideal.
Anna!
It's me, Karl.
- Who is it, Karl?
- Anna!
- What are you doing out here?
- I came down for some fresh air.
- I saw the light on and I came...
- Go back to bed.
Go to bed, Anna!
You must get back to the asylum.
Everything's ready.
Help me carry him down first.
Come on.
Karl?
- Where's Karl?
- He's gone back to work...
...at the asylum.
We've done everything you asked.
Please leave my room.
Give me that key.
No!
No! No!
No.
Gentlemen...
...Professor Richter has been
forcibly removed from his home.
It happened last night.
Now, if I might be allowed to finish!
Thank you.
Now, I have reasons for believing
that he is in very great danger.
I also have reasons for wishing that the
matter receives no publicity in the press.
Now, if you cannot guarantee
your cooperation...
...then I should be obliged to take out
an enforcement order against
your newspapers.
Now, I want no speculation
on what the police may be doing.
And more important, I want no comment...
...on what, in fact, I am going to do.
Put the towels there.
Ready, Karl?
Concentrate.
Hold his head. Rigid.
Lower.
All right, same procedure as before.
Speed is essential.
Good night!
Quickly.
Utterly fantastic.
Not fantastic, Karl, advanced.
The transplanting of all human organs
is a logical branch of surgery.
But you and your pigheaded
contemporaries refuse to recognize the fact.
And now we must bury Brandt's body.
I shall be down for breakfast
at 6:30, Anna.
I should like two lightly boiled eggs.
I don't know what they're looking for.
They've been to all the houses in my street.
The police, they're searching
all the houses.
This one's a boarding house,
Miss Anna Spengler.
- Miss Spengler?
- Yes.
We have authority to search your premises.
May we come in?
- What are you looking for?
- Can't tell you that, miss.
- Please.
- Very well.
You've come at an awkward moment,
I'm afraid.
I'm having the hall redecorated.
You take the upstairs,
you, Keller, take the garden.
- How many people staying here, miss?
- Only one.
A Mr. Fenner.
He's out at the moment.
I see.
I'll look around down here.
Dr. Holst?
Oh, Sergeant Brenner.
What are you fellows doing
crawling all over the town?
Can't tell you that, sir.
Bit out of your line, isn't it?
Yes, it is a bit.
I've got a couple of days off.
I'm just helping out my fiancée.
Nothing out there, sergeant.
All right. Wait outside.
- Isn't there a cellar in this house, miss?
- A cellar? No, I don't have a cellar.
I have to put all the junk in the garden shed.
You can hardly get in it.
Nothing up there, sergeant.
Thank you.
He's a better doctor
than he is a painter.
Yes, he's mending nicely.
The insanity was caused by pressure
on the motor area of the brain.
That pressure must be removed.
And the cells that have been damaged
must be destroyed.
Back.
Heart.
Hold his head.
This must be held still.
Absolutely still.
Right.
See to the dressings and bandage him.
In two days...
...I shall wake him just enough
to elicit response.
If I'm satisfied...
...then for you it's all over.
He'll have to rest for a short time.
Then I shall take him away.
Ella, why don't you take a holiday?
But you've been under
so much strain lately.
- A change would do you good.
- I couldn't.
Someone has taken my husband away.
I wouldn't have a moment's peace un...
Something wrong, Ella?
That man over there
buying a buttonhole...
...I seem to know his face.
Hello, Anna. Lovely day.
I'm going shopping.
- Is there anything you want me to get?
- No, thank you very much.
My goodness! A main's burst.
I'll go to the Water Board
and get some help.
They'll be here soon.
Anna! Anna, are you all right?
You look...
Go away!
For God's sake, go away!
Leave me alone!
I'll help you again, young lady.
- What happened?
- Oh, water main broke, sir.
- Devil of a mess, isn't it?
- Yes, it is indeed, sir.
It'll soon be done.
We've capped the hole.
It's happening all the time. Old pipes, you see.
- Ruined my plants.
There's nothing more to be
seen here. I'm sure you have your own
affairs to attend to. Excuse me.
Christina.
Look.
Well, I suppose it could be, Ella.
There's certainly a likeness.
Yes. Yes, it could be.
This will restore him
to minimum consciousness.
I only want him to respond.
Can you hear me?
If you can, raise your hand.
Answer me each time
by raising your hand.
You are Dr. Frederick Brandt,
are you not?
I am Baron Frankenstein.
Do you remember the name?
Good evening.
Are you the owner of this house?
I am.
Could you tell me,
is Baron Frankenstein staying here?
- There's no one here of that name.
- Please, don't close the door.
Well, you see, he might be
using another name.
Please listen!
My name is Mrs. Frederick Brandt.
My dear Mrs. Brandt,
how nice to meet you.
It was my intention to call on you,
but you have saved me a journey. Please.
I am Baron Frankenstein.
I beg you not to be afraid.
- Your husband is here.
- Here?
Yes, and he is safe.
You will see him shortly.
I'm sorry I had to take matters
into my own hands, but I had no choice.
It was the only way I could save him.
Save him? What do you mean?
- Where is he?
- Now, please, let me explain.
Had I come to you
and asked for your permission...
...to have him removed
from the asylum and put under my care...
...I do not think you
would have granted it.
And under the circumstances,
that would have been understandable.
But once I discovered where he was,
I could not leave him there...
...when I knew it was in my power
to help him.
Help him?
When it was you who drove him
out of his mind.
Even now, you can't
leave him in peace.
Where is he?
What have you done to him?
He is downstairs. He is sane.
- Sane?
- Come, let me show you.
Please don't be frightened
at what you see.
The apparatus is merely a method
of feeding him...
...until he is capable of taking
nourishment in the normal way.
- God, what have you done to him?
- He is simply asleep. Asleep and sane.
- He is cured.
- But that's impossible.
- Mrs. Brandt.
- What have you done to him?
Do you think I'd allow you to see
this if I were not telling the truth?
Let me go!
Oh, help me! In the name of God,
somebody help me!
There is no one in the world
who can help you, except me.
And that I have done.
What did they tell you at the asylum
about your husband's condition?
- They said there was no hope for him.
- Yes, and they are the very same people...
...who said your husband and I
were evil...
...because they didn't understand
what we were doing.
They did not wish to understand,
and so they condemned us both.
They pilloried your husband...
...and declared to the world
that he was mad.
And at last, they drove him mad.
Now, when he was ill,
how much did he remember?
Nothing.
Nothing at all.
His whole past life had disappeared.
Come with me. Please.
Watch his left hand.
Use your left hand to answer me.
You are Dr. Frederick Brandt?
- Why is he covered? May I not see him?
- Not yet.
The scars of his operation have not healed.
I'd rather you waited until they have.
Your Christian name is Ella, I believe.
Brandt, your wife's name is Lily,
isn't it?
Is it Ella?
Is your wife's name Ella?
He's just on the edge
of consciousness and cannot speak.
Ask him any question you wish
very softly...
...and watch his left hand.
Frederick, do you recognize
this voice?
Is it the voice of your wife?
The color of my hair...
...is it black?
Auburn, then?
That's enough, Mrs. Brandt.
We mustn't tire him.
- How? How?
- How is not important.
What is important is that you
never speak of this to anyone.
I have seriously broken the law.
He must have complete rest
for a whole week.
You can come visit him anytime,
if you so wish.
And at the end of a week,
you can take him away...
...and start a new life together.
You helped, Dr. Holst?
Thank you.
- What can I say to you?
- Nothing needs to be said.
Remember, don't mention this to anyone.
Goodbye, Mrs. Brandt, and please
don't worry. There's no cause.
Pack. We're leaving.
Straight on, then turn right
at the next crossroads.
I must have been out of my mind
not to come to you at once.
That was very stupid of you, Mrs. Brandt.
- You say that he recognized you?
- He knew his name.
He knew my name.
He knew the color of my hair.
Inspector, up here, quickly.
No!
No! No!
What are we going to do, Karl?
They'll be coming for us soon, won't they?
What is it, Karl?
Stay here.
It won't be long before the police
discover where we are, old friend.
So you and I must have our little talk
sooner than I anticipated.
One hour.
And we shall talk of things
long overdue.
- What's happened, Karl?
- No questions, Anna.
I want you to go to the stables,
harness the horses and stay there.
But, Karl, I can't. I don't know how.
He's waking Richter tonight.
He'll discover what he wants
and leave without us.
And without that carriage,
we can't get anywhere.
Anna, by Richter's right hand there's a tray
with a hypodermic and a file in it.
I must have them.
When I say, "Why don't
you get some rest, Anna"...
...I want you to get them
and bring them to me in the stable.
But what do you want them for?
I'll know from the amount used
what time he's waking.
When Frankenstein goes downstairs,
we take the carriage.
I'd like some coffee, Anna.
- How much longer must we stay here?
- A few days yet.
Well, I think I'll try to get some sleep.
Why don't you have a rest, Anna?
What time in the morning?
Seven. Sharp.
No.
Please.
I mean you no harm.
Frankenstein...
...where is he?
What are you doing, Karl?
What happened?
What have you done to him?
What have you done to him?!
He was awake.
- I stabbed him.
- You...?
No.
Anna.
I had to come here, Ella.
I had nowhere else to go.
The letter was the only way
of introducing myself to you.
For God's sake, who are you?
I buried my husband days ago.
Who are you to contemplate
such a dreadful joke?
I am your husband, Ella.
You'll not recognize my voice...
...because it is the voice
of a different person.
No.
No. Who are you?
You asked me,
did I recognize your voice...
...and what was the color of your hair?
And I answered
by raising my left hand.
I have become the victim of...
...everything that Frankenstein
and I ever advocated.
My brain...
...is in someone else's body.
I cannot leave here, Ella.
There's nowhere else for me to go.
Frankenstein will know I could only come
here, and soon he will come for me.
I know why he did this.
I must have been at some point
where I was very close to death.
He had to keep my brain alive.
He wants the formula...
...that I was going to give him.
I cannot risk your going
to the police before he arrives.
I will release you
when the time is right.
I didn't want you to see me, Ella.
Please.
- Don't be afraid.
- Don't touch me.
I wouldn't harm you, Ella.
I'm your husband.
Don't say that.
You're not...
You're not anything human.
You'd kill me?
Yes, I'd kill you.
I've been driven almost insane.
Why have you come here? Why?
For revenge.
Do I not deserve revenge?
You may leave now.
Go by the back staircase,
and move quietly.
I fancy...
...that I am the spider
and you are the fly, Frankenstein.
I know why you did this.
And what you've come for.
Brandt, our work.
Our research, remember?
We must continue together.
Better you had killed me.
That would be my wife
on her way to the police.
What you want is on a desk
in my study.
The game is for you to try and get it.
Wrong door.
You must choose...
...between the flames and the police,
Frankenstein.
You haven't got long
to get those papers.
Only one door left, Frankenstein.
No! Brandt, no!
No! Brandt!
No! Brandt! No!
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org